About Digital Networks North America, Inc. (DNNA)



- Digital Networks North America, Inc. (DNNA) was a wholly owned subsidiary of D& M Holdings U.S, Inc. 


- DNNA was home to the ReplayTV, Rio and Escient branded products, representing the best in digital entertainment devices. 


- DNNA was developing and building network connected entertainment products.  


- The core technologies developed at DNNA were introduced across the D&M; Holdings line of products in the advanced home theater and networked home entertainment markets. 



D&M; Holdings Inc., parent to D&M; Holdings U.S., Inc., was a global, publicly traded company on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. (TSE II: 6735). 


D&M; Holdings brands included Denon, Marantz and McIntosh Laboratory -- all industry leaders in the specialist home theater, audio/video consumer electronics and professional audio markets.



ReplayTV was a leader in networked digital entertainment. As the inventor and creator of personal television, ReplayTV allowed users to watch what they want, when they want. With ReplayTV users could find all their favorite shows, 
record them digitally onto a hard drive and watch them whenever they want. They could search by show title, their favorite actor or director, or by subject and ReplayTV will record it. 
With ReplayTV viewers could also pause, rewind, fast-forward, frame advance, create their own instant replays, and watch live TV in slow motion. 
ReplayTV's advanced features also allowed users to view jpeg images stored on their computer on their television screen and to share programming between multiple units in the home.

Rio pioneered portable digital audio technology in 1998 with the launch of the Rio 300. Since then, Rio had became the world's number one brand of digital audio players 
by developing a host of award-winning portables, geared towards today's digital lifestyle. 

With Rio CD players, users could take and play more that 24 hours worth of music on one CD. Rio's flash based portable digital audio players had no moving parts, so there's was skipping, no matter what users put them through.
And Rio's hard drive based player allowed users to take up to 400 CDs worth of music with them digitally, wherever they went!