SONICblue History

    The Company was founded in 1989 as S3 Incorporated, a PC graphics company. In 1999, S3 acquired Diamond Multimedia and moved into Internet appliances, broadband communications, home networking and audio solutions. 

In late 2000, the Company changed its name to SONICblue, transferred its chip assets to a joint venture with VIA, closed its graphics board business and re-positioned itself to be a leader in the emerging growth market of digital media appliances and services.


PRODUCT BRANDS

    Rio
    Built on the success of the trail blazing Rio MP3 player, the Rio 800 has become the hottest digital audio player on the market. Consumers have been delighted with its innovative design, greater capacity, additional music formats and major content partnerships. Expanding beyond handheld players and into new markets, SONICblue continues to disrupt the consumer audio market with such notable products as the Rio Volt, Rio Car, Rio Receiver, Rio Boom Box and the Nike psa[play offerings.

    ReplayTV
    SONICblue is the leading provider of software and services that enable partners to deliver revenue-generating personal television services through its ReplayTV technology. ReplayTV is the inventor and creator of personal television and SONICblue provides ReplayTV branded software technologies and service solutions to manufacturers of set-top boxes, DVRs, home-media servers and networked-entertainment appliances. SONICblue also manufactures and markets ReplayTV branded digital video recorder products for the consumer market.

    ProGear
    SONICblue pursues opportunities in the Information Appliance home and vertical markets through ProGear, which couples hardware and software to deliver one of the first wireless, fully portable, broadband-based products capable of enabling vertical partners to fully customize content. ProGear combines a 10.4 inch LCD screen with touchscreen technology and handwriting recognition into a lightweight, portable, wireless platform. ProGear delivers the full range of multimedia content, including email, personal organizer, custom applications, MP3s, ebooks, and favorite internet sites to those who want to Live Connected.

    Go-Video
    The industry's leading innovator for "dual" consumer electronics, Go-Video pioneered the development of the world's first Dual-Deck VCR with enhanced copying, editing and playback capabilities. Go-Video branded products also include the world's first integrated DVD+VCR.

    Loewe
    A delicate balance of art and science, Loewe digital televisions provide uncompromising, distortion-free images with a high-gloss finish cabinet face, creating an elegantly styled television with unmatched performance.

    California Audio Labs
    High-end home theater components designed to meet the stringent criteria of the most demanding home theater enthusiasts and discriminating audiophiles. The CL-2500 Series system is comprised of a five channel 500 watt per channel amplifier, surround sound processor, video processor, and DVD player.


